### Invoice vs Order

 The difference between a sales order and a sales invoice is that a sales order is initiated by a customer who is electing to purchase something from the business and a sales invoice is the document a company uses to bill the customer for that purchase. A sales invoice isn’t initiated until a sales order has been processed. Usually a sales order is triggered by a document called a purchase order, which is sent by the customer company to the selling company.

###### ORDER
A sales **ORDER** is a document that confirms a sale. It is generated when a buyer communicates that he wants to purchase a product. This can be in the form of a purchase order, which is, in essence, a notification of intent to purchase sent by the buyer to the seller. It can also be initiated by a fax, letter, or even a phone call from the buyer. If a purchase order isn’t used, the seller takes down the buyer information, such as name, address, product desired, quantity, and method of payment.

###### INVOICE
A sales **INVOICE** is a bill to the customer, after a sale has been ordered. It is usually sent to the buyer prior to delivery of the goods or product. It is considered a request for formal payment. In some cases, the sales invoice might indicate the terms of payment. From a buyer's standpoint, the sales invoice represents a receipt for their expenditure. In a tax audit, the IRS usually compares business expenditures to their specific sales invoices.
  

### Flow of Documents
In order to keep track of the flow of merchandise or services, most businesses that deal in the sale of products have specific procedures for completing a sale. This is because some products are kept in a warehouse facility and are not moved to be packaged for delivery until all paperwork is complete for the sale. For example a typical transaction might look like this: a company receives a purchase order from a buyer and a sales order is then generated requesting the product be removed from inventory and packaged for delivery. An invoice is then prepared and sent to the customer. When the customer pays, the item is shipped.

### Considerations
Sales orders and invoices are two of the most common documents used in business. Each business has its own unique method of preparing orders and invoices. Sometimes they’re generated manually and sometimes they are generated by a computer. Most have some form of product coding that references a specific product or service. For example, umbrella products might be coded with a “U” followed by specific numbers indicating the size and type of umbrella.
